Feature/block5 Build pipeline (#19)
devonfw/hangar: documentation/azure-devops/setup-build-pipeline.asciidoc

= Setting up a Build Pipeline on Azure DevOps

In this section we will create a build pipeline for compiling project code. The script located at `\scripts\pipelines\azure-devops\build_pipeline_generator.sh` will automatically create a build pipeline based on a yml template.

== Prerequisites

This script will copy the corrsponding yml template into your local repository and push into Azure DevOps, so it is necessary that you have in your local repository all the changes done in your Azure DevOps repository. In order to have all the changes execute `git pull` inside your local repository.

== The script

=== Flags
```
    -n    [Required] Name that will be set to the build pipeline.
    -l    [Required] Language or framework of the project.
    -d    [Required] Local directory of your project (the path should always be using '/' and not '\'). 
```

=== Usage

```
    ./build_pipeline_generator.sh -n <pipeline name> -l <language or framework> -d <project local path>
```

=== Examples

==== Quarkus project

```

>     ./build_pipeline_generator.sh -n 'quarkus-project-build' -l 'quarkus' -d C:/Users/$USERNAME/Desktop/quarkus-project

Author: ```suggestion
    ./build_pipeline_generator.sh -n quarkus-project-build -l quarkus -d C:/Users/$USERNAME/Desktop/quarkus-project
```

= Setting up a Build Pipeline on Azure DevOps

> In this section we will create a build pipeline for compiling project code. This pipeline will be configured in order to be triggered every time a commit to the Azure DevOps repository is done, regardless of which branch it is made on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section we will create a build pipeline for compiling project code. This pipeline will be configured in order to be triggered every time there is a commit to the Azure DevOps repository, regardless of which branch it is made on.
```

> The creation of the pipeline will follow the projets worklfow, with what a new branch called `feature/build-pipeline` will be created and the YAML file for the pipeline will be pushed to  this branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The creation of the pipeline will follow the project workflow, so a new branch named `feature/build-pipeline` will be created and the YAML file for the pipeline will be pushed to it.
```

= Setting up a Build Pipeline on Azure DevOps

> In this section we will create a build pipeline for compiling project code. This pipeline will be configured in order to be triggered every time there is a commit to the Azure DevOps repository, regardless of which branch it is made on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section we will create a build pipeline for compiling project code. This pipeline will be configured to be triggered every time there is a commit to the Azure DevOps repository, regardless of which branch it is made on.
```

The creation of the pipeline will follow the project workflow, so a new branch named `feature/build-pipeline` will be created and the YAML file for the pipeline will be pushed to it.

> Following the project workflow, a Pull Request will be created in order to merge this new branch (`feature/build-pipeline`) into the specified branch using the `-b` flag. The Pull Request will merge successfully if the project policies are met, if the merge is not possible you can either choose to have the Pull Reqest URL prompted in the console or open it in your web browser with the `-p` flag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, a Pull Request (PR) will be created in order to merge the new branch into the appropriate branch (provided in `-b` flag). The PR will be automatically merged if the repository policies are met. If the merge is not possible, either the PR URL will be shown as output, or it will be opened in your web browser if using `-p` flag.
```

> The script located at `/scripts/pipelines/azure-devops/build_pipeline_generator.sh` will automatically create this new branch, create a build pipeline based on a YAML template appropriate for the project programming language or framework, create the Pull Request and if it is possible merge this new branch into the specified branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The script located at `/scripts/pipelines/azure-devops/build_pipeline_generator.sh` will automatically create this new branch, create a build pipeline based on a YAML template appropriate for the project programming language or framework, create the Pull Request and, if it is possible, merge this new branch into the specified branch.
```

== Prerequisites

This script will commit and push the corresponding YAML template into your repository, so please be sure your local repository is up-to-date (i.e you have pulled latest changes with `git pull`).

== The script

=== Flags
```
    -n    [Required] Name that will be set to the build pipeline.
    -l    [Required] Language or framework of the project.
    -d    [Required] Local directory of your project (the path should always be using '/' and not '\').

>     -b    [Required] Name of the branch for which the Pull Request will be created.
>     -p               Open the Pull Request on the web browser if the merging fails. Accepted values: true, false.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    -b    [Required] Name of the branch to which the Pull Request will target. PR is not created if the flag is not provided.
    -p               Open the Pull Request on the web browser if it cannot be automatically merged. Requires -b flag.
```

```

=== Usage

```
    ./build_pipeline_generator.sh -n <pipeline name> -l <language or framework> -d <project local path> -b <branch> -p <true or false>
```

=== Examples

==== Quarkus project

```

>     ./build_pipeline_generator.sh -n quarkus-project-build -l quarkus -d C:/Users/$USERNAME/Desktop/quarkus-project -b develop -true

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ./build_pipeline_generator.sh -n quarkus-project-build -l quarkus -d C:/Users/$USERNAME/Desktop/quarkus-project -b develop -p
```

= Setting up a Build Pipeline on Azure DevOps

In this section we will create a build pipeline for compiling project code. The script located at `\scripts\pipelines\azure-devops\build_pipeline_generator.sh` will automatically create a build pipeline based on a yml template.

== Prerequisites

> This script will copy the corrsponding yml template into your local repository and push into Azure DevOps, so it is necessary that you have in your local repository all the changes done in your Azure DevOps repository. In order to have all the changes execute `git pull` inside your local repository.

Reviewer: Is this really required? Azure DevOps seem to end up in single file that is directly editable (https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/pipelines/customize-pipeline?view=azure-devops), **please confirm**. It can make sense to let Azure CLI hide the complexity of merging the new pipeline into the possibly existing file, but then storing the template somewhere else would be confusing if later someone wants to edit the pipeline.
